- The important point is to make sure the recipients can make money for themselves (find a job) once they receive whatever you're giving them, which I would argue should be a cell phone with enough free data (or default data, already installed) so they can learn valuable skills.


- what the problem is not:
    - It's not a mystery where the poor people are living, most of the time we have that information. We know a lot of the world's poor live in slums outside cities, in refugee camps, etc.


- what the problem is:
    - They are lacking information such as "who is willing to pay them to do a, b, and c jobs in their area".
    - They may also be lacking the ability to get to areas where their "willingness to work at those prices" and the "availability of those jobs" match up. A deposit of enough money to get to those places and the information about those jobs might be enough to bridge the gap.
    - We lack the information about the bank accounts/phone numbers actually used by poor people.
    - Some people don't have a way to communicate what they need & find jobs (cell phone) or a way to store & send/receive money to participate in the economy with people who already have that ability (bank account).
    - Hidden inefficiencies (such as transactions costs like fees/time to send/receive money, that prohibit a socially upward move out of their previous economic class).


- possible solutions:
    - I would spend it buying them cell phones/data/internet so they can find jobs they're willing & able to do in their area from that point forward, maybe with some starter money in their accounts. The most important thing is to make them independent.
    - As far as the problem of finding the bank accounts, iterating through possible phones/account numbers isn't a bad place to start, but you don't have information about who you're sending it to, if you could filter out the known bad numbers, that might be an effective option. If you guess an incorrect account/phone number that no one uses, the money won't ever leave your account, until someone starts using that number, if the offer doesn't expire.
    - New bank accounts can be created and associated with the cell phones being distributed, so it's not a mystery where the recipient is a criminal or rich or not, it'll definitely be the poor person receiving the cell phone.


- less feasible solutions:
    - I would want to spend it hacking accounts so the rich people never notice that most of their money is being transferred to these poor people (as their quality of life would likely remain the same and they'd never notice the difference), but I'm not sure that's feasible.


- variables that can change the other variables:

    - The other factors to consider are liquidity (where someone's extra money is already promised to other investments or locked up in long-term such as physical assets) and financial networks (in the sense of 'trade loops' where the money is locked away and never leaves the loop of traders, and other related structures to loops such as 'trade networks' or 'trade boundaries/limits'). 

    - If you can increase the liquidity of this value that is currently locked away (using manipulations such as advertising market participation as better in some way than storing physical goods, such as by debunking apocalyptic fear-mongering), you'll release that extra money into the economy where it'll inevitably flow into the existing trade loops/networks. This involves inspiring people to participate in the economy rather than holding goods they're not using (property that isn't being used has lost value in the sense of the market transactions that could be created using that property, such as renting it out).

    - Then if you can improve the trade loops/networks/other structures so that this inflow of cash starts going to the people who could reduce inequality, that might improve the situation more permanently than making a donation typically does.

    - Value destruction is another factor. Some value is destroyed through current market operations, leaving some people in a worse off position, such as where property is destroyed, leaving that person worse off and all other market participants better off.

    - Supply chain optimization is another factor. If you can make it cheap & energy efficient to ship goods, you'll solve the food distribution problem that currently results in extreme food waste.

    - Education is another factor (there should be free videos to acquire valuable skills like statistics and coding already loaded or freely available on the cell phones being distributed, so that these poor people are now valuable potential tech employees). Education is the most effective way to achieve value creation. (This includes education that may violate embedded cultural norms but will be better for community health, such as reproductive optimization, by only having children where the parents can afford to take care of them, by making sure birth control is not demonized. This would reduce the number of starving children.)

    - The ranking of adjacently solvable problems is another factor. Focusing on the solvable problems (adjacently solvable with existing resources) is a good place to start analyzing the problem. This means ignoring factors like 'supply chain optimization' if it's unlikely to be solved soon with existing resources, as the point is to help people quickly, even if solutions to some problems are postponed temporarily. This ranking lends focus to filter out the high-cost solutions for the more complex problems. Involved in this is a way to identify when problems will solve another problem (Ending poverty solves other problems like famines, wars, diseases, lack of tech/solutions, climate change, etc).

    - Poverty is the biggest cause of (more) poverty. Anything that creates poverty (war, corruption, climate change) will lead to a poverty cascade, as poverty is the default state that a competitive adjacent-thinking society necessarily degrades to, absent the intervention of an optimized organization such as a world government, organized volunteers in the same chat group, or tech company, similar to how structure descends into chaos by default, unless a human being intervenes by creating organization. If you can spot a way to transfer wealth away from all the corrupt rich dictators who are robbing their citizens and transfer it to their citizens, you'll solve some corruption problems, as you'll be removing the incentive to be corrupt. Cell phones/internet/data will help dissolve corruption, but misinformation is the problem of 'no information' that already exists in corrupt poor countries translated to the information interface, where it becomes the problem of 'too much false information, so the truth is hard to filter'. Education can help with this, to educate people on how to spot misinformation. Helping the poor get over the threshold where they can't fix their own problems to the place where they can may be as simple as a cell phone, default data with education to acquire valuable skills and information about local jobs, and some starter money in the account associated with the cell phone. People who are interested in helping these people more can benefit from a website with these bank accounts connected, so they can be sure they're helping poor people.

    - Poverty costs less to fix than it does to maintain. Without the world's poor contributing to tech/science/other industries, everyone is worse off & bears more collective costs (which they're not really explicitly aware of, rather experiencing a deep unease that the world is crumbling because there's no organization guaranteeing that everyone has just enough to be a problem-solver, so the world seems meaningless to everyone, at which point they lose their ability to value the right thing), bearing more costs than if we gave poor people the relatively extremely low amount of money necessary to become coders. Everyone would have more solutions from the medicines they would discover & other problems they would solve and the cost of those solutions is just making sure poor people have cell phones & nutrition because we made sure they have a job, which is insanely cheap relative to the benefit. Other countries are insane not to invest that extremely low amount of money in educating & hiring these people (hiring them to learn so they can solve problems, including their own problems such as market optimizations and lowering cost of manufacturing/shipping medicine), and to instead give away food/medicine directly, which keeps the poor uneducated & dependent, rather than creating manufacturing hubs in poorer/corrupt countries which would make these goods very cheap/accessible for local residents.

    - Scamming is another factor. Scam factories are common in third-world countries because they have no clear path to make similar income without committing crimes. This includes scams like 'products made with deadly chemicals'. If you can find a path out of scamming for these factories, such as by convincing them that they'll make more money if they teach their employees valuable skills and treat them better, you'll improve the lives of their employees, which is a huge demographic comprising some of the billion poorest people.

    - Drugs are another factor. Addictive drugs create criminals and poverty through creating a dependence that they are typically unable to fulfill, as most drug addicts can't spend all their money on all the drugs they want for the rest of their lives, otherwise their addiction wouldn't be a problem for society, except for their lost opportunities like the inventions they would have come up with, absent their addiction.

    - Contracts are another factor. Slavery is a problem typical of default power dynamics where the slavedriver has committed too many crimes to be forgiven. If you can find a contract that both sides would agree to that involves ending the slavery state and paying workers more fairly, that involves allowing the slaves to exact some justice on the slavedrivers without decimating their population, there might be a path to transition out of slavery that also benefits the slavedrivers to some degree (required for them to agree with it). Similarly, if you can find a contract that feuding tribes would agree to that would produce peace (like agreeing to live in different places and not interact, or agreement to some justice structure for the war crimes that both sides would agree to), you'll provide a path out of war. War and slavery create more poverty, just like existing poverty creates more poverty. To build a 'contract-based path' out of war and poverty is a tough problem, but is possible to solve. This is crucial because the only way out is either slaughtering all the slavedrivers which we've tried and it tends to not work, or finding a way that the slavedrivers and slaves can coexist without decimating either group. This is a problem of 'finding the nicest Nazi, to motivate the Nazis to stop killing, from the inside'. It may involve the use of information technology, by educating both sides about empathy tools, and otherwise teaching them to think so they act less violently.

    - Justice is another factor. Much of the world's inequalities can be explained by 'lack of organization' or 'lack of justice' leading to a 'lack of meaning' in people's lives. If you can help governments create rule of law, so that people receive justice and society is fairer in general, you'll solve a lot of problems leading to crime, as criminals are often victims first. Crime leads to poverty just like war/slavery, as it takes the meaning out of life, creates burdens for the victims, and leads to more crime by the criminal. There will always be crime (a direct cause of more poverty) while there is lack of justice, as victims will take matters into their own hands where the justice system fails them.

    - Jails are another factor. Criminals are a huge percentage of the population in some countries, which could benefit from a 'clear path out of criminality' similar to a 'clear path out of scamming', and could also benefit from a 'clear path to organize criminals so they're treated more fairly in jail', a 'clear path to integrate them into society in a beneficial way with rehab and education', and a "clear path to reduce crime by identifying reasons why they commit crimes that we don't already know about and solutions to those problems" such as by asking criminals to design societies where they could be treated more fairly and how to lower the costs of such societies for the government and for non-criminals. Jails are dehumanizing, take meaning out of life, and tend to lead to more crime structures like crime spirals where they commit a sequence of increasingly worse crimes.

    - Intelligence is another factor. Making people smarter will reap a huge benefit for the whole world, as we'll have better solutions, not just more solutions. Making people smart is somewhat complicated but can be vastly assisted by educating people with certain skills (intuitive math explanations, skills like basic logic/statistics, analysis frameworks like interface analysis - https://github.com/outdreamer/build-a-cure) will make the world far richer than anyone could imagine. This is one of the variables that if you solve one little problem related to this variable (solving 'intelligence inequality' by 'making everyone smarter'), you indirectly solve all other problems.

    - Culture is another factor. Changing culture is notoriously difficult but possible if one culture is clearly more effective at making people happier than another culture. You can highlight the advantages of various cultures and people can decide for themselves which culture will make them happier. Often times this is an information problem, where they are just unaware of other cultures that would make them happier and unaware of the advantages to those cultures, which they've been misinformed about. Culture can be summarized by a 'set of priorities' but these priorities translate into other structures when implemented, such as 'rules', 'practices', 'habits', 'collective emergent effects' which make a culture seem more complex than just those priorities. Reducing a culture to the advantages/disadvantages is another way to summarize them for evaluation & selection. Cultures produce rules such as "if you can't feed your baby, have another one to maximize the chances of having a child that lives to be an adult" and "just force men/women to have children" and "don't allow any abortions, even for rape victims" and "advertise how enjoyable relationships are, without any of the negatives, so everyone is happy all the time". These rules are the products of a suboptimal culture with priorities like "population growth", "violation of rights", "prioritization of children over adults", and "hedonism", respectively. You can see that these are obviously incorrect, and therefore those priorities, on their own or in that combination inherent to that culture, are incorrect. Re-setting priorities takes time but this time is reduced with 'influential insiders' who can change minds quickly. If you get them on your side, you can change cultures in a positive direction toward beneficial priorities (like thinking, independence, love, inventions). Incidentally, if you prioritize thinking, everything else is solved, as people are more independent, more loving, happier because they're better able to handle or solve their problems, funnier, invent more, and generally make better decisions.

    - Language is another factor. Some variables are more useful to discuss than others. Discussing 'differences' (as a fundamental object of a 'problem') to be resolved with 'connections' is generally more beneficial than discussing objects like laws, corruption, etc, which require more formatting to convert them to differences, where once they are in the 'difference' format, they are more obviously connectible to resolve the difference that is the problem. This also removes some of the connotations of these objects as 'known' or 'unchangeable' or 'understood', so that people think about them more and the emotional impact leading to poor decision-making rules is removed.

    - Love/happiness is another factor. Most people don't have love in their lives and therefore can't see the meaning in the world, as they were not happy enough to feel that this world is real and meaningful, which leads them to crime. Happiness can be framed as a ratio between 'problems you can solve' and 'problems you have' - the more of your problems you can solve, the happier you are. Once you're happy, you start pursuing problems that other people have and start solving other people's problems for them. Happiness is therefore related to intelligence (smart people are happier, because they can solve problems better). Somewhat smart people see the solvability of problems and get depressed because they don't have mental functions that would grant meaning to solving problems. Giving people these mental functions is possible with education. TV is one way to educate people in a slightly subtler way, it doesn't have to be 'directly communicating formulas' to be education. If they have love, they will also have another source of meaning than intelligence would give them on its own, and will want to share their love by solving problems to make the world better. Teaching people meditation such as 'loving kindness' meditation or skills like 'how to dignify people' so they can practice it and eventually become able to love people is a useful skill set that will solve the 'motivation/meaninglessness problem' that is so endemic in so many cultures.

    - Comedy is another factor. Being able to 'reduce problems' is a useful mental skill that can solve the problem of 'filtering problems', as the problem which are less efficient to solve can be reduced using tools like comedy, to allow focus on more solvable problems. Comedy can also be useful for education in terms of distributing knowledge quickly & permanently, similar to TV. If it's embedded in a joke, people are likelier to remember it, than they are to remember a fact stated in a book. 
        - Comedy can also decrease the meaning of everything and can motivate people to avoid solving problems, so it's not a first line of defense but is a good backup measure. 
        - Comedy is the art of 'getting things wrong' so jokes are a useful database of what is wrong (and also what is comforting) which can be used as a filter to determine what is right (especially uncomfortable truths).
        - Comedians are basically 'would-be criminals with more self-control', who learned how to use false information to comfort themselves so they wouldn't commit crimes. 
        - It's useful to connect comedians and criminals - is there a joke that would have stopped them from committing a crime? This is a useful question to ask.
        - Connecting criminals to victims, victims to victims, and comedians to both (such as in a chat group online), is another possibly useful connection strategy - are there conversations or other information or other resources that would allow someone to forgive certain crimes? If so, it's useful to ask this question and find out, then distribute that information, as well as information about which jokes prevent which crimes, as a way of solving justice problems.

    - Understanding is another factor, related to intelligence, just like happiness and comedy.
        - Understanding is a better way to influence people than advertisements or misinformation or emotional manipulations
        - for example, understanding that when people in poor countries fight, it benefits people like Putin and Jingping rather than benefitting themselves
        - Understanding that 'groups tend to make bad decisions' and 'people tend to make bad decisions without accountability' is another example of insights that generate high value
        - Understanding is reflected in actions, whereas information can be read but not understood to the point of acting on it (like how people know war is bad but still participate)
        - Understanding that most thoughts aren't actual thoughts but urges (default or adjacent thoughts), and real thoughts are 'whatever is difficult to think of'
        - Understanding that humans are fundamentally a 'difference-seeking species' is useful to understand people and society in general
        - Understanding components of love (similarity, solidarity, connected emotions/incentives/stakes/goals) and other things that people want may help them want it less, so they dont commit crimes to get those things.

    - Hope is another factor, also related to intelligence. If people have hope for the future, they'll be likelier to think about the future. This means creating science/philosophical fiction or otherwise inspiring writers so that more people are imagining and thinking about the future and how it could go well and badly and for which groups. People with imaginations are likelier to have hope for the future because they can imagine a better world and the clear paths available to get there. The 'hope deficit' kills people by removing the meaning in any attempt to succeed.


- summary

    - If I were you, I'd start an information/education campaign to try to use information (the cheapest resource) as the way to build these paths out of these problem states. Sharing information about comedy to handle unsolvable problems, information about coding/statistics to make money & understand the world, information about more optimal cultural priorities to change the rules they follow, information about good arguments for why people should participate in the market more (hiring someone to do a job) to create more jobs, information about local jobs people can do so they can find these jobs & travel to those locations, information about the right contracts to pave a path out of slavery by aligning incentives of both sides to stick to the contract, information about crimes to create rule of law, information about 'clear paths to solve social problems' to make it easier for leaders to help their citizens - all of this information can be easily distributed, once found, and once everyone has a cell phone. 

    - I would also make sure everyone has a cell phone, there are probably only a billion people left to give cell phones to, some of which can be donated by people or built cheaply such as these for 10 - 20 USD https://pricebaba.com/mobile/pricelist/low-cost-phones-in-india), and then the gap will be filled and everyone will be able to participate in information markets, at which point supply chain problems are mitigated and the global industries move toward information products in information markets, which are cheaper to distribute.

    - If you would rather solve one of these specific problems because you have an interest in it or a theory of how to solve it (like you have some idea of how to make a 3-d printer that can print all existing medicines), then I would just focus on your idea/theory. But keep in mind that sharing the above information is a lot cheaper (especially once everyone has cell phones) and creates more permanent value as it makes people more generally independent (as opposed to the health created by a 3-d medicine printer, health being a specific form of independence), unless you already have a clear theory on how to create such valuable products as a 3-d medicine printer.

    - before taking any action, I would think through a few options you've identified, research them a bit, and pick one that you think is the highest impact that you yourself can do without impacting your happiness negatively. If you want to do more, there are always new alternatives, like organizing with other people. I would check that the option you want to do hasn't already been tried before and failed for relevant reasons (like that it's doomed to fail) as opposed to irrelevant reasons (like that it was poorly implemented/funded/advertised). If you're going to send money directly, there are some charity indexes that help people find less corrupt & more effective charities, like Kiva/Give Directly. If you're looking for a way to choose which method to try, I would lean towards more generally effective methods that are lower cost, more permanent, and make people independent, like the methods I've mentioned above in the summary.


- other points
    
    - there are some methods that are more effective than others, for example:
        - align stakeholders with their incentives, meaning 'give the ability to solve specific problems to the people with the biggest incentives to solve them (the people who have those problems)'
            - this can take the form of giving criminals education so they can come up with the best-designed society where everyone can coexist, bc they understand crime
            - or guaranteeing jobs for people with medical problems so they can spend their time researching solutions to their own medical problems
    
    - there are some structures that adjacently solve every problem (interface analysis), such as:
        - 'differences between interfaces, networks, maps, filters, sets, and other structures' which are the most useful variables to focus on when problem-solving, which are useful to apply when solving problems like 'how to organize/represent/describe structures'
        - equivalent alternate approaches to problem-solving, such as 'understanding the problem', 'describing the problem', 'comparing the problem to other problems', 'reducing the problem', 'avoiding solving the problem by prioritizing other problems', 'storing solutions', 'changing known solutions', 'generating obvious solutions', 'mixing solutions', 'connecting the problem & solution', 'filtering solutions', etc, are useful to know about, just like knowing alternate solution workflows like 'trial and error' and 'divide and conquer' are useful to know about.

    - there are other sets of extremely valuable information that can create high value if you can identify that information, as a way to make money
        - having information about price data (what people are willing to pay for inventions) would be useful for creating jobs (as a guaranteed return on investment for investors so they would be likelier to invest in that invention)
        - giving some people valuable information (like interface analysis) allows them to charge other people money for communicating that information, which incentivizes them to distribute that information
            - they can then charge more money for applying that information (like by applying interface analysis to invent new machine learning optimizations)
        - identifying the biggest value-destroyers and the biggest value-creators in society is another set of useful information with extremely high value, as it could change decisions of large groups like governments
        - identifying the next big inventions (like by 'crystalizing emerging new priorities into structures fulfilling that priority') is another useful information bit that can generate high value
    
    - other structures can alter the solutions mentioned above, such as currency (stored value), government (fairness distributor), and laws (interaction limits to maximize coexistence potential), but those are likelier to be controlled by too many entities to interfere with, because they're already known & understood by most people.

    - finding the right arguments to convince your fellow privileged powerful people to be interested in ending poverty is another valuable bit of work that can generate unlimited returns
        - economic arguments for helping poorer people like 'poverty is expensive to maintain' and 'money is decisions, so give it to the best decision-makers' and 'crypto is an efficient wealth redistribution mechanism that can benefit the poor if the scam is implemented a certain way to favor them' and 'if you teach a poor slum resident how to code, they are now worth 1 - 20 million dollars in potential labor in their lifetime (bc they can code apps to do statistics and insights reachable with statistics like the 'correct medicine' or 'correct policy to get elected' are extremely valuable), versus if you dont, they can only generate 100 - 10000 dollars of labor in their lifetime (partly bc theyll die sooner if they dont get a good job to afford health care), and the cost of educating them is extremely low bc they want to learn and they want a better life from getting a job once theyre educated, so you dont really have to motivate them, the motivation already exists, they just cant fulfill that goal without a cell phone/computer to learn statistics, its profitable to educate the poor, every company on the planet should be fighting to do that, theyre endlessly valuable bc theyre a high population of people and they are interested in working to earn money, most people are interested in working less, but not poor people, there are only so many people who want to work and its often people who have previously been deprived, so they tend to work harder than other people and are more valuable in that way' are extremely valuable arguments and if you find those first, you can generate value by distributing them to other privileged powerful people

    - crowdsourcing can help organize, filter, & find this information
        - building a website that lists 'useful scripts to write' and the associated payouts guaranteed for the right solution that 'passes all the input/output tests written for that task' is a useful way to help poor people find work
        - distributing this website only to poor people is a way to make sure theyre learning valuable skills to perform those tasks (like writing scripts) and make sure that they are practicing building solutions and also benefitting from that work by earning the payouts
        - for example, a 'script to match user symptoms/habits with possible diagnoses & treatments in research APIs' or 'invent some efficient new combinations of chemicals/materials that would solve some energy problem' or 'come up with simple clear plans for people to follow to change this climate metric that people would actually follow' would be worth at least a million but you can probably hire someone to write a decent solution for 5K using tools like copilot and user-submitted input/output tests to test their solution against
        - a website to perform statistical analysis and write reports on data sets (like 'analyze this data set of weather patterns and notify me of the major variable relationships so I know whether to change my farming strategy') is probably another profitable set of tasks that is relatively teachable and relatively quick to write that could benefit from customization and human input
        - governments/companies can fund the website and guarantee the payouts
        - this separation from other forums/documents and isolation in one website applies organization, de-duplication, prioritization and standardization that makes it easier for government/company leaders to act on user-submitted solutions, like by choosing whether to distribute & advertise which solutions to employees/citizens
        - this will help poor people identify jobs, by giving them a website to find jobs directly and match jobs with their skill sets, which is more of a 'task economy' rather than a 'job economy', where the task economy should be built on top of guaranteed basic income, so jobs arent as necessary and people have free time to write the task scripts
        - work should only be done if necessary rather than 'bc we needed to create jobs to support people', there is always necessary work to be done like inventing and there is only a need to create jobs bc people are still allowed to hoard resources when there are innocent people without resources
        - the website can include a 'list of problems that people need clear plans to follow to solve those problems, if solving them is going to be voluntary on their part' (a list including problems like a 'path of contracts out of slavery/war' which can be solved with a clear plan detailing an example of that structure of contracts), otherwise if you dont 'motivate people to want to solve problems', youre choosing between 'forcing people to do the right thing' and 'allowing humanity to fail'

    - alternately, people have traditionally used scams to make money when earning it is cost-prohibitive
        - for example, if you started printing dollars with Bill Gates' face on them (trading dollars at the bank of bill), banking on people's belief that he'll bail them out by buying the cash (a belief which acts like a guarantee, if he has the ability and intent to fulfill that), he might actually do that, depending on who it's helping, which might start out as a scam but turn into a useful way to distribute Bill Gates' money in a more efficient way than his foundation does, which would be helpful to him bc then he wouldnt have to hire people to do it, as the free market would be doing all the work of distributing cash

    - addressing major problems one at a time is useful to lend focus (for example, 'climate change' as a unifying interface to apply analysis to)

        - methods of reducing 'causes' of fuel 'requirements' are the best way to transition away from fossil fuel usage, as all-fuel demand will be lower if you address causes of fuel requirements
          - for example, 'import/export inequalities/inefficiencies' are a primary cause of fossil fuel requirements (other causes include 'commuting', 'tourism', 'space/war/govt surveillance industries')
          - addressing these inequalities/inefficiencies can involve:
            - 'investing in local suppliers/supply tools to reduce need for trade & high-cost trade infrastructure' (independent food production tools like uv farms, generators, 3-d printers to print clothes, investments in local manufacturing as a way of investing in climate change solutions, not just economic independence, as a way of fulfilling multi-intent structures)
            - 'increasing taxes on imported goods' (requires 'political support' which is less likely)
            - 'investing in increasing remote work opportunities (investing in software industry jobs like data scientists performing statistical analysis & machine learning to find new solutions) or investing in "moving people to urban areas where the jobs are" to reduce travel requirements for work'
            - 'investing in reducing demand for trade with information tools like advertisements'
            - 'investing in information industries by providing infrastructure (like cell phones, so people focus more on info products like movies/songs/news/memes/predictions/philosophies/manipulations/scams/victories/variables/betrayals/concepts/diagrams/networks/insights/perspectives/priorities/goals/plans/fights/jokes/conversations/cultural beliefs/conspiracies/cults/mysteries/crypto/stocks/inventions & other more efficient happiness-generating info products than physical products, including physical wars) to divert economies away from physical requirements of transporting physical goods'
          - investing in incentivizing 'requirements' to 'alternatives' to fossil fuels, such as:
            - 'investments in tools to switch away from fossil-fuel based automobiles to make it cheap and accessible and therefore likely to switch away from those fuels'
          - investing in educating market players who are averse to information in a sustainable way that is likely to succeed
            - like by 'communicating with dictators via cell phone or drone, rather than in-person, which could involve shooting the messenger, so they know there are checks on their power & they are being watched & so they have facts and useful incentivized plans communicated to them even if theyre averse to new/negative info'
          - finding a 'path of plans made of adjacent optimizations' that can provide a likely incentivized path for governments to follow is useful
            - investing in identifying & applying economic optimizations, such as 'making sure the only people who are allowed to provide fossil fuels (tax-free or otherwise prioritized/incentivized) are the people who cant produce alternatives and need money the most/fastest, where money would help them become independent from this revenue stream as its invested in creating other industries specifically local job markets' such as what is happening in the 'Russia to Africa transition in fossil fuel suppliers'
              - this is useful when identifying these optimizations before the market identifies those optimizations as obvious, adjacent, and/or required
          - finding different pricing methods to price goods by new important variables such as their 'dependency index'
            - such as how much 'producing a good' will maintain dependence on imports for other goods, as in 'how unlikely it is that a nation will create independence by producing more education/software if they produce this other good X'
          - finding communication methods that are not being used or not optimized such as:
            - 'explaining decisions to sync perspectives' to improve coordination/organization across society, which will create more efficiencies as a result of this organization
            - 'teaching negotiation methods to maximize consensus and progress of the group (staying focused, emotion management, expressing your honest positive intents like "willingness to work hard to help the group succeed", immediately admit mistakes, encourage an environment where questions are protected)'
            - using an AI as a negotiator in elections/diplomatic/policy conversations gives people someone to blame for the 'unpleasant hard facts or unpleasant good plans that some entities need to know'
              - https://www.science.org/doi/full/10.1126/science.ade9097
            - teaching leaders how to succeed (helping citizens, adapting to change, communicating with citizens more, only try to lead territories/populations they can manage successfully as in better than other possible leaders so that citizens are happy, lead with empowerment rather than control, be better than an AI leader would be so citizens can justify not automating leaders) so they find it easier to get more things right as a leader and therefore retain their power by avoiding coups
            - identifying non-government variables that act across fields like economy/governance, such as how 'religion' is a 'primary variable that can alter entire economies'
              - 'christianity' created 'mass organization and resulting economic variables that transcended national borders, this organization having economic impact across centuries', the 'i ching' created 'prediction markets', the 'qoran' created 'policing markets', 'bhagavad gita' created 'meditation markets', 'star wars' created 'science fiction markets (for building possible future governments/societies)'
              - creating a new belief system that creates other markets is one way to organize work across nations
          - finding useful government structures such as 'information like the citizen who could unite the most people/get the most votes' is an industry that could benefit more from AI
          - organizing solutions around 'what is needed to avoid fossil fuels' including 'alternative revenue streams for poorer governments' by enabling those governments to have a direct line of communication & organization (shared online chat groups, shared stats/analysis/machine learning teams/models) so they can have direct, constant input and make suggestions and inform other governments about their requirements directly, rather than having 'direct input to the group' once every few years at an in-person conference, which will necessarily create a lack of organization
          - aligning incentives like 'more educated countries will receive better support from other governments' to increase low-cost incentives (the cost primarily being internet/phones) to fulfill generally valuable intents like 'educating citizens' to pivot to more profitable revenue streams & industries like 'jobs using that education such as data science'
          - a graph to model economies should have nodes like 'opportunities', 'policies', 'technologies/automations', 'education', 'infrastructure', 'investments', 'adjacencies', 'incentives (costs/benefits)', 'alternatives', 'intents', 'decision-makers (leaders and AI models and inventors)', etc
            - meaning include important human-centered communication structures like 'conversations', 'stakes' (reasons as 'possible intents, including attaining rewards & avoiding costs', vs. incentives which are the 'highest rewards'), 'simple/incentivized plans', 'decisions', 'priorities', 'criminal incentives' and also macro-scale important factors (sources of power/change in the economy) such as 'opportunities/alternatives/adjacencies', 'technologies', 'cultural beliefs', 'governance variables like democracy (democracy being good for business & free market vs other governance methods)', 'rule of law which is good for the economy bc crime interferes with a healthy economy', 'policies', 'negotiations', etc, not just standard economic structures like 'currencies', 'resources', 'jobs', 'investments', & 'rates'
            - you can apply filters like:
              - 'incentives' to only include the more probable structures (only include 'simple/incentivized plans' as opposed to 'all known/possible/expressed plans of social media users')
              - more powerful variables like 'rule of law', 'unhappiness', 'education', 'communication' and 'high emotional education/intelligence' which are highly explanatory and capture a high degree of variation
              - interface structures like 'dependency loops/sequences', 'system gaps' (nodes that could be connected to create useful structures like markets but arent connected), inefficiencies' (high cost/benefit ratio compared to alternatives), and 'common/repeated structures' are other 'high variation/importance' structures to include a visual for, as interface structures are higher impact and more useful to visualize than other variables
            - for example, visualizing the 'opportunities' generated by a cell phone could be a 'set of nodes that indicates possible input/output info/revenue sequences of a small business the user can start to generate & sell info products'
            - 'opportunities' created by a resource node such as "money to buy a bus ticket to a big city" is a 'set of the nodes of job opportunities associated with that event'
            - overall, these 'opportunities' can be modeled as 'potential energy fields' on a graph, these fields increasing in size & complexity with increasing access to education/internet/intelligence
            - visualizing a few variables like 'power', 'potential', 'independence', 'freedom', 'intelligence', 'peace', & other equivalent alternates is useful to get a general understanding of where the areas are that have the biggest requirements to change and the areas which are the most successful
              - as intelligence increases, differences in some variables will increase (inventions/predictions & other intellectual work will diversify) and will decrease in other variables (ethics will converge, to build a peaceful society, as more people become intelligent, so that they have more time to think, which will become the favorite activity, and they will try to control other people less, bc theyll enjoy thinking which is an independent activity)
              - intelligence can be increased by teaching just a few structures, for example:
                - logical questions that teach people how to reach insights just by thinking:
                    - 'how can you tell what type the one remaining item in a set is, if you know the counts of the two types in that set' (by counting the types of other items except the remaining item and compared it to known totals of item types in that set)
                      - 'how can you tell how this answer might be wrong' (by applying a 'variable/difference' to the variable of 'counts of types in the set', such as if the count changes during the comparison function, which changes an input variable to the function computing the answer)
                    - this solution is derivable by listing the logical structures like 'requirements' of the 'state where there is only one remaining item to determine the type of' (its 'required' to be the 'item that is missing/different' from the 'counts of already counted item types, compared to the total counts')
                    - teaching that logical question alone can make someone 100x smarter, alerting them to the possibility of deriving other logical deductions without all information, which they can do just by thinking (thinking involving 'applying/injecting variables', 'identifying core functions like standardize/compare/identify differences to compare/identify similarities to standardize/identify variables/identify variable injection points')
                    - this problem can be solved by multiple interface structure sets:
                        - solving it by identifying 'things to similarize' (the partial set and full set of items, with items in the same position based on this mapping of equivalent items across sets) for 'standardize (and then compare)' intents and 'things to differentiate' (the missing item in the partial set compared to the full set)
                            - this 'standardized set format' creates a 'structural similarity' between the 'gap' (of the missing item) and the structure that would fit in that gap (the one remaining item)
                            - this format makes it obvious how to identify a 'point where computation can stop' (when one set is fully counted in the partial set, meaning where a 'solution' is obvious/certain/required in the structure)
                            - solving it by injecting 'maps' in the position of the 'things to similarize' so that the 'differences to differentiate' are more 'clear/obvious'
                        - solving it by identifying the 'point where computation can stop' such as 'once you identify the full set of one type in the partial set, you know the remaining item type bc there are only two types so at that point you have filtered out the other full type in the partial set'
                        - solving it by connecting requirements, such as the requirement that 'the item must be an item of one of the two type sets' and the requirement that 'if one type set is fully counted in the partial set, the other type set is not fully counted in the partial set'
                    - once they arrive at these functions to solve the problem, they are thinking by applying interface analysis
                    - if citizens learn to think, they can solve their own problems and will need less from the government and will value a government that can continue to help them learn to think and make them smarter than other governments
            - visualizing historical structures like 'invention sequences' or 'policy sequences' is useful to determine 'optimal paths to good governance, high education societies, good infrastructure, low-slavery societies, and other optimal states'
              - this can help identify opportunities like 'giving the most cybersecurity to poorer nations or exploited groups, and giving them "new/useful/valuable info", so they can keep info private and sell it to make income as an educator/consultant' (which creates an artificial market using artificial scarcity, which could be considered a scam but is likelier to distribute money to poor people faster than other methods)
            - https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=33707708
            - the graph should be able to fulfill intents like the following using a standard node query:
              - 'find trades that can reduce some metric like economic inequality of a group compared to another group'
              - 'find policies and priorities that lead to more rule of law'
              - 'find education & other variables that leads to intelligence' (should have results like 'quiet', 'peace', 'time', 'protection from deadly threats', 'access to high-variation info (info about variables)')
              - 'find contract paths (given what you can adjacently convince both sides to do at a given point on the sequence) that lead out of slavery/war'
              - 'find simple plans people are likely to follow to reduce negative climate impact'
              - 'find arguments that persuade people to change their behavior away from the most incentivized/harmful behavior'
              - 'find structures that resolve market inefficiences like supply-chain inefficiencies' (should have results like 'local manufacturing investments')
            - one default way is to create a list of 'input queries' and 'desired output results' and test graphs by trial & error to see which are the best at efficiently producing those results (with fewest steps in a successful query)
            - a good graph of the economy will easily identify solutions like:
                - 'proof of ethics', 'proof of intelligence', 'proof of good decisions' are other valuable metrics for buyers/lenders
                - 'temporarily allow or even require known errors like coordination between market players in cases where the coordination is temporary and functions more like a temporary coordination such as an organized joint business venture, such as when drug companies pool resources like machine learning models to identify drugs faster, then stop coordinating when they have attained maximal profits from that joint venture which are shared according to contribution, to keep costs low for important businesses like drug companies so they can fund their operations while keeping prices lower, even if such coordination could temporarily create costs for small businesses, and make results of that coordination available to small businesses just in case the small business has something else to offer that the big business wouldnt by default, if only to make small business competitors more useful for big businesses to acquire or buy from', which may be destructive to the free market if allowed to exist in any situation but can create efficiency cascades if applied in certain industries (like the life-saving industry, which protects the supply of scientists/coders) and for certain timeframes (like until the solution to the problem has been maximized in value so the exit from that market is optimal, bc not every industry's problems need to remain mysterious/unsolved forever just to create jobs and some industries create inputs for jobs like 'extended healthy lives')
            - another good graph to find would be a 'mapping between other interface structures and math/physics interface structures' (such as mapping 'possibilities' to 'numbers' and 'repetitions/incentives/efficiencies' to 'probabilities') to find the objects with definitions that could theoretically adjacently map to each other, so that physical reality is connected to the interface network in the map
            - another way to approach this is by listing requirements of the society that exists (it must be stable, self-sustaining, fulfill most agents' needs most of the time, capable of sustaining many variables like different careers and modes of governance and cultures), iterating those possible structures fulfilling those requirements, and selecting those likeliest to be accurate by filtering this list of generated possible solutions fulfilling those requirements
            - another way is to apply known useful structures (such as how 'independence' is the most useful structure, which when applied first, can replace all other structures) to identify functions that are more independent in that they can cover more functionality than other functions, similar to how 'interactive' structures are useful to identify

